Hello and welcome to session 131.
My job as Carbon Technology Manager is
to help you bring your
application to Mac OS X.
But of course,
it is critically important to
continue to support your customers
who are running Mac OS 8 and 9.
And that's what we're
here to talk about today.
So what is CarbonLib?
I'm going to start by defining Carbon as
the set of APIs that you can use
to write, well I should back up,
excuse me,
I'll define it as a set of APIs derived
from classic Mac OS that you can use
to write native Mac OS X programs.
CarbonLib then is a system extension that
implements the subset of those APIs that
are available on Mac OS 8 and 9.
And I say subset because although
Carbon is derived from classic Mac OS,
all current and future development of
Carbon APIs is targeted at Mac OS X.
So where it's feasible
and where it makes sense,
we will continue to bring back
some of those APIs and make
them run on Mac OS 9 or 8.6.
But it's important to understand
Our primary goal is to give
you the APIs you need to write
killer apps for Mac OS X that
fully exploit that platform.
It's not always possible for us to go
back and re-engineer Mac OS X-style
APIs on top of Mac OS 8 or 9.
So why did we do CarbonLib then?
Simply to allow you
to develop for Mac OS X while continuing
to support your customers who are going
to wait a little bit longer to upgrade.
The greatest thing about Carbon is that
it provides a single source solution.
The same code
can be compiled and run on Mac OS 8, 9,
or 10.
Of course,
you need to conditionalize and test
for API availability at runtime as
you always have because not all of
these APIs are available on every
single OS that Carbon supports.
We'll get into that a little bit later.
And the second great thing about
Carbon is that it can provide a
single binary solution because
we continue to support the
CodeFragmentManager and CFM executables.
There are other alternatives as well,
including Mac OS, and we'll talk a little
bit about that later.
But rest assured,
the same binaries that you create
today for Mac OS 8 or 9 will
continue to work on Mac OS X,
once they're carbonized, that is.
This diagram simply illustrates
what is the beauty of Carbon.
That your application
compiled as a Carbon app
will run on Mac OS 8 or 9 calling
into CarbonLib and on Mac OS X calling
into the Carbon framework and other
frameworks available on Mac OS X.
There are two versions of
CarbonLib currently available for
download from Apple's SDK webpage:
CarbonLib 104 and CarbonLib 131.
Why two versions?
Because CarbonLib 104 is intended
for use only on Mac OS 8.1.
It provides the basic set of
Carbon APIs that you can use to
run on Mac OS 8.1 through Mac OS X.
These correspond to the
APIs you'll find in the
Universal Interfaces version 3.3.2.
And with this set of APIs,
you can create a good Carbon app
that will run on all these platforms.
But with CarbonLib 1.3.1,
which is the current GM release,
you have available to you a much
broader set of APIs that more closely
match what you'll find on Mac OS X.
And I'm going to talk
a bit about this later.
But the important thing to note
is that with CarbonLib 1.3.1,
You must target Mac OS 8.6 and
later because many of these,
well all of these newer APIs cannot
be brought back to Mac OS 8.1.
An interesting thing about CarbonLib
131 is that it's self-localizing.
It supports all the languages
you see listed here.
What this means to you is that you
don't need to carry around within
your installer different versions
of CarbonLib for these regions.
When your Carbon app is launched,
CarbonLib will examine
your VERS resource,
look for the locale,
and localize accordingly.
There's not much that
needs to be localized:
the title of the window menu,
and some error strings,
and print dialog types of things.
None of this was necessary
in CarbonLib 104,
so that version doesn't
need to be localized at all.
There will be more locales supported
in future revision of CarbonLib,
which we'll get to later.
So, to summarize,
this is the version of CarbonLib that
we recommend you target unless you
absolutely need to support Mac OS 8.1.
So I mentioned that you
can license CarbonLib.
There's no fee for this.
It's similar to QuickTime or many
of the other technologies that
you've probably already licensed
from Apple at one point or another.
You simply fill out the usual software
distribution agreement and then
there's a one-page CarbonLib addendum.
The license does include Apple Help 163.
That's for you to install on Mac OS 8.6
because the Apple Help Viewer app did
not start shipping until Mac OS 9.
But by moving your help into
the Apple Help HTML format,
you can deliver your HTML help
content across all these
Carbon supported platforms.
We recommend that you do that.
The CarbonLib 104 license
includes Nav Services 101,
which we want you to install if
you install CarbonLib on an 8.1
system because it fixes some bugs
in version 1.0 of Nav Services.
So this series of slides coming up
here will be familiar to those of
you who attended Scott Forstall's
Frameworks Overview session.
But I want to highlight a few things.
So CarbonLib 1.04 does support
development from Mac OS 8.1 to Mac OS X.
began with all of the Carbon compatible
APIs that already existed in Mac OS 8.1.
And then we added the toolbox
accessor functions for opaque
toolbox data structures,
control window and menu properties,
Nav Services 1.0, a subset of core
foundation functionality,
and the first version of
the Carbon Printing Manager.
This is a solid set of APIs.
You can definitely write
very good programs targeting
this CarbonLib 104 set.
When you step up to CarbonLib
1.3.1 running on 8.6 or later,
A whole slew of new
APIs become available to you.
Using these APIs,
you can deliver a much better
user experience to your customers.
First and foremost,
the Carbon Event Manager.
This represents the new event
model for Carbon applications.
We strongly encourage you
to adopt the Carbon events.
They will make it easier to write
your Carbon applications and also
can dramatically improve performance,
especially on Mac OS X.
Another one I'd like to
highlight is the iBCarbonRuntime.
This is what allows you to use Interface
Builder's nib files on Mac OS 8 and 9.
Interface Builder is,
as you've probably seen in
previous demos here at the show,
a much easier way to
design your user interface.
And now, with the iBCarbonRuntime,
you can use those nib files in
your CarbonLib applications.
When you're running on Mac OS 9 or later,
that brings in some new
APIs that were added in Mac OS 9.
Most importantly, the HFS+ APIs for
improved file management.
And if you attended the
Carbon Performance Tuning session,
you learned a bit about those.
As well as many performance and
stability enhancements that we
brought with Mac OS 9 and 9.1.
So if you can't bring your
customers to Mac OS X,
we really encourage you to try and
bring them at least to Mac OS 9.1.
And finally, let's not forget why
we're all doing this.
When your app runs on Mac OS X,
you get Aqua,
you get all the new Carbon APIs because
that's where they originate,
and you get access to all
the other APIs that are
available to you on Mac OS X:
Quartz, all of Core Foundation,
even BSD or Cocoa APIs.
I'm not going to get into
all the details here.
It's pretty well documented now,
but these are the basic steps
that I recommend you follow.
to get your app carbonized.
One, go get the CarbonLib SDK.
Read the Carbon Reporting Guide.
Use CarbonDater to preview the
changes you'll need to make.
Begin adopting those new
APIs and then finally,
aquify your interface
because if you don't,
Your app is not going to look very good
on Mac OS X and that's not the reason why
you're doing Carbon in the first place.
Let's talk about each of these briefly.
The CarbonLib 131 SDK includes
both the regular and debugging
version of the CarbonLib extension.
The debugging version adds
assertions that help you in
your development efforts.
It also includes stub libraries,
the latest universal interfaces,
A folder full of documentation
with links to more on our website.
A bunch of sample code and
the Apple Help Viewer 163,
which as I mentioned you can install
when you're installing on 8.6.
In the documentation folder on the SDK,
you will find the Carbon Porting Guide.
Props.
Read this document.
It's 150 pages of great information.
It's got step-by-step
porting instructions.
Lots of great advice and a complete
example of porting an application
including before and after sample code.
And also a section on adopting
Carbon events which I think
you'll find very interesting.
Next,
you should run CarbonData on your app.
The instructions for this are
in the Carbon Reporting Guide,
but it's very simple.
You download this tool from our website.
Drag your application on top of it.
It spits out a text file that
contains a list of all the
APIs you're importing from the system,
as well as some other things like
potential accesses to low memory or
resources stored in the system heap,
both of which are not
supported in Carbon.
You can look at this file,
make sure there's
nothing secret in there,
mail it to us.
We have a server, receives that mail,
compares that list against
our Carbon database,
and in about an hour sends you
back a formatted HTML report
that looks something like this.
At the top of the report
is this nifty pie chart.
It gives you an idea of the level of
Carbon compatibility you're already at.
For each API,
or each function that your app imports,
we tell you whether it's
supported in Carbon,
modified in Carbon,
not recommended in Carbon or unsupported.
Then the remainder of the report goes
on to list specifically for every
API that is not fully supported,
What that API is, its level of support,
and recommendations for alternatives.
[Transcript missing]
Use this report to get a general
idea of what you need to do.
And I would encourage you during
your carbonization process
Every once in a while,
take your latest binary,
drop it on CarbonData and get a new
report and see how far you've come.
It's a great way to gauge your progress.
So then you have to get to work, right?
Changing all kinds of stuff in your code.
Much of that is fairly
tedious and very simple.
Adopting accessors for opaque
toolbox data structures,
changing your UPPs.
We don't support the generic
new routine descriptor,
for example.
You have to use specific ones
like new control descriptor,
new control action
UPP might be one example.
All of that is really
straightforward and pretty simple,
search and replace kind of stuff.
There are some APIs that virtually
all of you will need to adopt.
If you're currently using standard file,
now is the time to stop.
Nav Services has been
around since Mac OS 8.
It's a much better UI and it's
supported on Mac OS X as well
as 8 and 9 through Carbon.
We need you to adopt Nav Services and
I'll also describe some
other benefits of that later.
The Carbon Printing Manager
is necessary for anyone
who's going to print because
Mac OS X has a very different print
architecture than Mac OS 8 and 9.
And the Carbon Printing
Manager hides that from you.
By providing a high-level
API that supports both platforms,
when you're printing on Mac OS 8 or 9,
it calls through to the classic print
manager and uses the same classic drivers
that you're already familiar with.
When you're running on Mac OS X,
it uses Mac OS X's native print
drivers to deliver its output.
You don't really need
to be aware of that.
The API is fairly straightforward.
We try to make it as simple as
possible for you to convert to the
Carbon Printing Manager without
totally altering your print loop.
And finally for help,
delivering help to your customers,
Apple has standardized on HTML help
delivered through the Apple Help Viewer.
So we no longer support
Apple Guide or Balloon Help.
We encourage you to adopt
the Apple Help Viewer APIs,
and if you do things like
tooltips and whatnot,
then you should use help tags.
And then the last step,
you've got your app up and running now,
you want to make it
look good on Mac OS X.
First thing I would advise you
to do is to create a new high
quality 128 by 128 bit icon.
Your icon...
is the first thing a user sees.
It is their introduction
to your application.
And a beautiful, well-designed,
informative icon
tells the user that you care
and that you want to deliver
the best possible application.
Next,
you'll need to adopt a system appearance,
or at least we highly recommend
that you adopt system appearance
through things like the Appearance
Manager and other APIs that we've
made available to you to automatically
So,
we're going to start with the first step,
which is to adopt, or excuse me,
to automatically appear as an,
with an Aqua interface on
Mac OS X or with the Platinum
interface on Mac OS 8 and 9.
And also you need to follow
the Aqua Layout Guidelines.
Both of these steps are much easier
if you use Interface Builder to
design your interface and then use the
nib files resulting from that to...
will display this interface
on Mac OS 8 and 9 or Mac OS X.
And finally, we recommend that you
adopt the Sheets APIs.
We've made these very easy for
you now because Nav Services and
the Carbon Printing
Manager both support Sheets.
So what this means is a single set
of Sheets APIs will do the right
thing on Mac OS 8 and 9 and Mac OS X.
So when your app is running on 8 or 9,
you'll continue to get application modal
dialogs and when you're running on 10,
you'll get document modal Sheets.
Documentation.
The definitive source of API support
in Carbon is the header files.
So always look there first.
You want to know, is this particular
API supported in Carbon?
For every function,
it will state right in the headers what
level of Carbon support is available.
After that, the Carbon spec.
Great place to look for
more information about APIs,
not only availability,
but recommendations for unsupported APIs.
The Carbon specification is the
source of the information that gets
put in your Carbon data report.
I'll talk about that in a second.
I've already mentioned
the Carbon porting guide.
Lastly, TechNote 2003 is sort
of a mini-porting guide.
It's not specific to Carbon developers,
but it provides a lot of useful
information for anyone moving
code from 8 or 9 to Mac OS X.
So the Carbon spec lists all the
APIs and the universal interfaces,
those that are supported
as well as unsupported.
gives you the inclusion status,
tells you what version of CarbonLib
or Carbon that they're available in,
And also, when applicable,
what version of the OS is
required to support that API.
And for APIs that aren't fully supported,
The spec generally provides guidelines
or recommendations for alternative APIs.
Here's a picture of the Carbon spec.
This page is on the memory manager.
You can see that Maximum
Sys is unsupported.
More masters, for example,
is not recommended.
And we tell you there,
you should instead use
more master pointers.
And as you can see,
More Master Pointers says
Carbon applications should use this
function instead of More Masters.
In all cases, for supported APIs,
we tell you what version of
Carbon it's available in and that
they're available on 8.1 and later.
Again, it's very useful information.
It is not updated as
frequently as the header files,
so there's some lag.
That's why you should always
look in the headers first.
The spec is generally updated.
Several times a year and I think over
time we're going to get in closer sync.
For additional documentation,
I highly recommend the
Learning Carbon book from O'Reilly.
I hope you all picked it up.
How many of you got the
Learning Cocoa book?
Okay, leave the room.
I'm having an informal competition with
my Cocoa Technology Manager counterpart
and she's winning right now,
which is rather perturbing.
So I'd like you all to go out and
buy the Learning Carbon book now.
There's a Carbon tips
and tricks web page.
You should bookmark this page.
There's a lot of great information there.
created by our developer technical
support group so that they find
issues common to Carbon developers.
They document that on the web page there.
In fact, I'll be referring to that a few
more times in this discussion.
Finally, the Carbon Developer homepage.
That always contains
pointers to the latest SDKs,
what's new with Carbon development,
things of that nature and
I recommend that you bookmark that
one and check back frequently.
Okay, so that's it for the
getting started part.
Let's dig in,
let's talk about some of the things
that you're likely to encounter now
as you begin your development efforts.
So the first thing you need to do is to
The first step as you Carbonize your app,
or when you're ready
to run as a Carbon app,
is create a plist resource.
This tells Mac OS X that you
are a Carbon application.
It is nothing more
than the property list,
the XML property list that
you would create for a
bundled Mac OS X application.
That same information simply
pasted into a resource in your
CFM single binary application.
You still need to maintain your VERS,
Open, FRF,
and all these other resources for
compatibility with Mac OS 8 or 9.
But when you're running as a Carbon app,
On Mac OS X,
the plist resource supersedes
and overrules the information
in your resources.
And this is documented in TechNote 2013.
By the way, many people ask me about
the CarbZero resource,
which was the first way that
we recommended people identify
their Carbon application.
We still recommend that you
include a CarbZero resource.
However, you must include a
PList resource as well.
It is very important that you
continue to test for API availability
at runtime as you always have.
When you have an application
that can run on Mac OS 8,
9 or 10,
it's no different than supporting an
app when you had an app that ran on 6,
7 and 8.
Some APIs are available in
different OS releases that
aren't available in others.
So the way to do this,
first and foremost, is to use Gestalt.
Gestalt is the best way to test
for base functionality like "Is
QuickTime installed?" and then
When you need to test for specific
APIs that may not be supported
across all versions of QuickTime,
then use a T vector test to
find out if that specific
function that you need is there.
If you haven't used the
T-Bector test before,
this is documented on the
Tips & Tricks web page.
And finally,
do not rely on the CarbonLib version
to determine whether a particular
API is available because CarbonLib
sits on top of Mac OS 8 or 9 and in most
cases is simply exporting the APIs that
are available in the underlying OS.
So it's not a reliable indicator
of whether a particular API is
there for you at runtime.
An example of this would be if you said,
"Oh, I'm running on CarbonLib 1.3.1.
The HFS+ APIs must be available to me.
You would be wrong because those
APIs were introduced in Mac OS 9.
So your Gestalt test would
tell you that right up front.
Accessing non-carbon APIs.
Yes, you can.
We don't encourage it.
It makes your code less portable
and more difficult to maintain,
but the option is available to you.
And the way you do that is using
the get shared library function to
find interface lib and then the find
symbol function to locate the specific
function that you want to call.
And this again is documented in
the tips and tricks web page.
Be sure that you verify that you're
not running on Mac OS X because
InterfaceLib is not available there.
If you're doing the proper error
checking with Get Shared Library,
you'll of course find out it
won't return interface lib,
but we find that a lot of
developers forget to do that.
They just assume that it's always
going to return with interface lib,
and when it doesn't, they crash.
Try to avoid that.
There's a few things you need to
be aware of when you're writing
an app that can run in two very
different memory environments.
I'm sure you're all aware that
Mac OS X provides essentially
unlimited address space.
Okay, four gigs, that's a lot.
The main thing here is don't
try and allocate all of it.
It has performance implications.
There's a finite amount of RAM in
the system and even hard disk space
for backing store may potentially be
limited and of course it's a lot slower.
So use what you need and
give it up when you're done.
That's really all you have to do.
If you're currently using freemem,
find out how much memory is
available for you to allocate.
You're going to find that that's not
very useful on Mac OS X because it
returns essentially a meaningless value.
And it returns that same
value every time you call it,
which is currently 20 megabytes.
We might change that.
It doesn't matter.
It's just an amount that we set to
kind of allow apps who aren't being
very smart about it to continue to run.
And another final point is if you're
using zones to manage memory right now,
you should know that your Grow Zone proc
won't be called on Mac OS X.
Zones are essentially,
well they're unsupported in Mac OS X.
Most of the zone functions
are simply no ops on X.
On Mac OS 8 and 9,
you need to continue to do all
the same things you've always
done to manage memory there.
RAM footprint.
This is primarily of concern
to apps running on 8 or 9.
CarbonLib introduces,
it brings in some extra
code that you're probably,
wasn't there before with InterfaceLib
and so you need to adjust your
memory requirements accordingly.
And the amount varies widely so
we can't really give any specific
recommendations other than retest
and requalify with CarbonLib.
You'll need to increase your
stack and your heap some amount.
If you do plug-ins or if you either write
plug-ins or use plug-ins in your app,
you should know that Carbon apps can
load interface Lib-based plug-ins,
no problem.
That's on Mac OS 8 or 9.
On Mac OS X, of course,
they can't because interface
Lib is not available there.
Non-Carbon apps cannot
load Carbon plugins.
CarbonLib explicitly checks at
launch time that the host app
is Carbon and if an interface
Lib-based plugin tries to load,
it will be refused.
If you've been to the
Carbon events session,
the Carbon performance tuning,
actually most of the
keynotes on the first day,
you've probably heard
over and over again,
Stop polling.
Polling is bad, especially on Mac OS X.
Not so bad on Mac OS 9,
nobody really notices, but on Mac OS X it
really kills performance.
One of the best ways to do
that is to adopt Carbon Events.
The Carbon Event Manager simplifies
your code because it can handle for
you your human interface elements.
It can drag your windows, resize,
draw the menu bar,
all these things for you.
It takes that out of your event
loop and manages it for you.
And it can eliminate the need
for null event processing.
I'll talk about that in a second.
The biggest areas where we
find application developers are
polling is with mouse tracking.
There's a very simple way to stop
doing that using Carbon Events.
If you have code right
now that uses getMouse,
button, stillDown,
those kinds of functions in a tight loop,
You can instead use track mouse location.
It doesn't alter your loop at all.
It's very simple to adopt.
But the difference is the track mouse
location does not return until the
mouse is moved or a button is released.
That makes for a much
more efficient system.
And finally, we continue to support
wait next event in Carbon.
No problem there,
but you should be aware that there
are some differences in wait next
event's behavior under Carbon.
And the primary one is that the
sleep time that you request is
what you're going to get unless
an event arrives for your app.
So if you request six ticks,
you will not get control back
in two ticks with a null event.
You'll get return after six ticks.
So the important thing here is that you
can't get control back in two ticks.
is we really recommend that
you use large sleep times.
Two or three months should be
sufficient for most applications.
And then use Carbon timers to get
processing time when you need it.
I think the best thing to say is
that if you're relying on null events
right now to do idle time processing,
you'll find that it's not going
to work reliably under Carbon.
So really you should
adopt Carbon event timers.
And it doesn't alter your event loop.
You can still keep using wait next event,
but just start using timers.
You'll be much happier.
Your customers will be much happier
because your app and the rest of
the system will be more responsive.
And finally, I'd like to put in a little
plug for application packaging.
This is the preferred
way to deliver your apps.
[Transcript missing]
It supports the localization
scheme of Mac OS X.
It works on all file systems,
flat file systems as well as HFS.
And a single package can
deliver more than one binary.
So you can deliver a CFM executable
for Mac OS 8 and 9 and a
Mac OS executable for Mac OS X.
TechNote 1188 describes
packaging today on Mac OS 9.
We are working on improved
package support in an upcoming
version of CarbonLib and I'll
talk a bit more about that later.
And now, I would like to bring
up a very special guest,
Vince Parsons of the
Adobe Acrobat engineering team,
to share with you his experiences
porting Acrobat to Carbon.
Okay, so Mark thought it would be
a good idea if someone who's
actually been through this process
I'm going to say a few
words about our experiences,
what we learned, the mistakes we made,
and hopefully we can teach a little
bit from what we learned and so you
won't make the same mistakes we did.
So I'm calling this
CarbonLib from the trenches.
So it's kind of a group of tips, tricks,
and gotchas we discovered during
the development of Acrobat Reader 5.
So first, why did we use CarbonLib?
We've got a large legacy code base
and we wanted to move that toward 10,
but we didn't want to sacrifice
our 9 and 8 development.
We also didn't want to have two
different sets of code bases
and two different binaries.
We wanted a single binary that
worked everywhere with a single
code base that worked everywhere.
We also wanted to have
an easy way to debug the
Carbon API code that we're using.
Even with the latest version of
Metaworks they distributed to show,
the debugging on OS 9
is still more mature.
So you can debug your Carbon APIs on
9 as well as 10 if you use CarbonLib.
And they also provide the debugging
CarbonLib library which gives
you lots of nice asserts when
you're using the APIs incorrectly.
And the other thing we got
is we got a lot of goodies
that came free with CarbonLib.
Core Foundation, MLTE,
and Carbon Events are used
extensively in Acrobat.
Core Foundation and MLTE are available on
OS 9 but the latest and greatest versions
are only delivered via CarbonLib.
So you want to make
sure you go that route.
So a few tips.
So as Mark discussed,
there are several runtime
differences you have to worry about.
There's of course the menu layout.
So quit and preferences belong
over under the application menu,
not under the file and edit or
wherever preferences typically goes.
And rather than just do a
check on system version of 10,
you should probably use the Gestalt
menu manager Aqua layout bit.
That way it's more dependable
and you should actually avoid
system version checks in general.
The help menu is another issue.
To get the help menu on 9
there was an API for it.
On 10 the help menu
doesn't actually exist.
There's a new API with part of
Carbon called HM get help menu.
That API will on 10 actually create
the help menu if it isn't already
there and will return it to you on
8 and 9 as well as tell you which
offset from the beginning of the
menu the first item actually exists.
So if you go to the menu and you click
on 8 and 9 when they have the show
balloons and those sorts of items,
it will let you know what offset
off the beginning to use when
adding your own menu items.
Some other issues are window attributes.
So when you're creating a window
with the Create New Window API,
there are several
attributes that are 10 only.
And if you actually create a window
with these attributes on 8 or 9,
it will fail and you will
just get a null window back.
So there are some Gestalt checks provided
for actually checking those attributes.
And just make sure you check the Gestalt
bits before you assign the attributes
to the window so the create works.
And the other thing is memory management.
Handles make little sense on OS X.
They make great sense,
both handles and 10-mem handles, on OS 9.
You can check the Gestalt memory
map sparse to know whether you're
in a sparse environment and
you should use just pointers.
Or if you're not,
then you should use the handles
like you're used to under 8 and 9.
So most applications will call
outside of the core set of
APIs that are part of Carbon.
It's just a fact of life.
And Acrobat does it and it's
actually not a big deal.
For calling to the OS X only APIs,
just use the callMacoFramework sample
that's part of the SDK as a guide.
It's a simple case of
you load a framework,
find an entry point in it,
and you call it.
You can use this to call
directly into Core Graphics,
you can call into I/O Kit,
any of the 10 only APIs that are
currently exported only through Mac OS.
You can also call stuff
that exists only in 8 and 9.
If you're patching traps, yes,
we still patch a trap in Acrobat.
It's a big no-no, but we do it.
So you can still call a get-shared
library in interface lib or
whatever is the appropriate library
for the API you're looking for.
And do find symbol, and just again,
call the function pointer.
So you can do that for
dealing with patching traps,
heap zones, any of the things that aren't
supported in the Carbon API.
So you've heard a lot this
week about drawing text,
and everyone says,
"Make sure you draw text the
right way," because drawing
text the old way looks really,
really bad on 10.
So most of us still have
drawString and drawText calls,
and yes, it does work, but it looks bad.
The drawThemeTextBox API has been
discussed a lot this conference.
It works.
It works well.
It draws anti-aliased with core graphics.
It also, because it takes a
CFString as an argument,
removes a lot of the issues of
encoding and font selection for you.
So if the text,
you can just pass it in as a CFString,
the OS automatically figures out, "Oh,
this is Japanese.
Oh, this is Roman." And we'll pick
the appropriate font if you
have the language kit installed,
and we'll display the text correctly.
And starting with CarbonLib 1.3.1,
it is now available on 8 and 9,
not just on 10.
Amen.
So, like many Adobe apps,
we have plugins and we have legacy
plugins that are linked to InterfaceLib.
We have to support them because
they're an existing technology.
And we found a few caveats
with dealing with plugins that
you should be made aware of.
First of all,
when a plugin that's InterfaceLib
based creates a window with,
say, Nucy window,
it will not necessarily be
created in the right layer.
There's a very distinct difference
between the modal and the document
and the floating and those sorts
of layers with CarbonLib and on 10.
They will pretty much always be
created in the document layer.
So if you have a modal
dialog created from a plugin,
it may end up in the wrong layer.
And this is always true if you
use a custom proc ID because
the system can't even try to
guess what type of window it is.
So to solve this, if you see that a
plugin's created a window,
you can call setWindowClass on it or the
forthcoming setWindowGroup API and just
move it from the document layer to the
appropriate layer and all will be well.
Another thing to think
about is Carbon events.
Now if you're moving
toward Carbon events,
and Carbon events are coming
anytime you call waitNextEvent,
or if you're calling runEventLoop,
or there are several other ways.
Anytime you call into a plugin,
they're often going to call modal dialog,
they're going to call
waitNextEvent directly,
they're going to call things
which may cause your Carbon events
and Carbon timers to be called.
And so just because you're calling
into a plugin doesn't mean you
can't be ready for your code
to be called back at any time.
So just be aware if you have
any re-entrancy issues in your
Carbon event handlers or your timers,
make sure you think about those before
you start dealing with the plugin issues.
So a few tricks.
There are a whole suite of APIs as
part of Carbon based on CFString.
The wonderful thing about these,
and I'm sorry, you can create controls,
windows, menus,
almost all the major UI elements can be
created with CFStrings for their titles.
This allows your UI code to be
completely font and encoding agnostic.
Again, as I'm mentioning,
you stick in a Japanese CFString,
you stick in a Roman CFString,
you stick in a Chinese CFString,
the OS does the rest.
You just pass the string,
it sets the font for you,
deals with all the encoding issues.
It also makes it easy if you want to
have a Roman and a non-Roman checkbox,
say, next to each other,
because just passing the string,
you can have any number of fonts in
the dialog for the various controls,
and Carbon takes care of it for
you if the fonts are available.
There are a couple of limitations.
There are issues with regard
to using these on OS 9 and 8.
The menu and window titles are
always going to be the system font.
You can pass in another string
with a different coding.
Due to limitations of the underlying OS,
they will always be the system font.
And they're also limited to 255
bytes because they are translated
into a Pascal string to go into
the existing functions that
are underneath in the real OS.
Another thing to think about is
the Create Window from Nib API.
Interface Builder has been talked
a lot about in this conference.
You can create your dialogs and
windows in Interface Builder and
then create them in a Carbon app
with Create Window from Nib.
This works on 8.6, 9, and 10.
It's a whole lot easier than
dealing with D-logs and diddles.
If you have existing D-logs,
you can import them directly
into Interface Builder.
You go to the File menu,
say Import Resource.
It's there.
It also has native support for
several of the new control types.
You can do your bevel buttons,
your round buttons, your progress bars,
all the types that previously with a
D-log diddle you had to create control
resources and it was rather difficult.
A couple of issues with regard to nib
files is they have to be external.
You cannot embed a nib file into
your application as a resource.
And this again goes toward
the packaging issue.
And the nib file is actually
a package itself containing a
few files and that has to sit
outside of your main executable.
If you want to actually
use Create Window from Nib,
see the converter nib
sample on the Carbon SDK.
And it gives a good description
of how to load the nib file and
then create the window from it.
So with all things with new technologies,
there are a few gotchas.
So there are several APIs that
are currently marked as OS X only.
Don't assume they'll stay that way.
Several APIs have migrated from being
X only APIs into CarbonLib over time.
I mean, a couple examples:
getApplicationTextEncoding, addIn1.2,
drawThemeTextBox, addIn1.3.1.
There's going to be more in the future.
Don't make assumption that if
drawThemeTextBox exists that you're on X,
or any particular API.
If you're checking on its existence,
assume that means the API exists,
not what OS you're running.
And as Mark said, avoid checking the
Carbon version from Gestalt.
While it's useful in some minor areas,
in most cases it's a problem.
This is because if you ask OS X,
it says 1.3, and you ask OS 9,
it says 1.3.
They don't mean the same thing,
because the versions of CarbonLib
and OS X have not matched up
as nicely as they had hoped.
It's always good to use narrow
Gestalt checks if you can.
Check for unresolved functions
with a T vector test.
And if you do need to check
for a CarbonLib version,
say to work around for a bug
or some other issue like that,
combine it with a system check so that
you know you're running on Mac OS 9
and this is the CarbonLib version.
The only time we call this API is
at lunch because we require
CarbonLib 1.2.5 and later.
That's the only time we check
for this API because it's a
good baseline to work from.
So resource chain management.
So the Carbon APIs added a few new
APIs for us to modify the resource chain.
Previously we had,
if you wanted to modify it,
you could either open and close
or you could modify the chain
directly if you knew the structure.
Right now there are new APIs for
inserting a resource file,
detaching a resource file,
there's several other
APIs dealing with this.
Use these wisely,
especially under CarbonLib.
As a developer who uses plugins,
it's very tempting to every
time you call into a plugin,
set up the resource chain,
put everything in you need,
call the plugin,
and then as soon as the plugin returns,
you pull everything out of the resource
chain so you have no resource collisions.
This doesn't work as well as we'd hoped.
First,
There's an issue with regard to it's
not the most efficient thing to do.
It's far more efficient to set up
your resource chain in the right
order at the beginning and then do
your get resources and the collisions
won't happen if the things are aligned
all the way you want them to be.
Also, there's a bug in Nav Services in
Mac OS 8.6 through 9.1 that will
cause your resource chain to be
corrupted in certain scenarios.
So if you actually modify the resource
chain from a Carbon event handler or
timer that's called during a Nav call,
because Nav will call waitNextEvent
while its dialogues are up,
it will actually corrupt the resource
chain when you return from Nav.
So if you do modify the resource chain
from a Carbon event timer or handler,
make sure you don't do
it during a Nav call.
So there are a few things that
OS X does for you just behind the
scenes that CarbonLib doesn't,
and you've got to make
sure you do them yourself.
A couple examples: Create root control.
If you want to use the new control
embedding architecture built into Carbon,
you have to create root
control on OS 8 and 9.
On 10 it's automatic,
on 8 and 9 you have to call
it explicitly or have a
DLGX resource next to your DLOG.
Also, idle controls.
On 10, again, they do that for you to
animate their buttons,
to animate their progress bars,
chasing arrows, etc.
On OS 8 and 9,
if you don't call idle controls yourself,
they won't animate.
So if you want the chasing arrows,
the progress bar to animate correctly,
stick a call to idle controls in a
Carbon timer and that'll take care of it.
So printing.
Printing is an interesting issue for
Acrobat because we do a lot of it.
And moving toward the printing
manager APIs in Carbon,
several things you want to be aware of.
First, the Carbon printing manager on
8 and 9 is really just a wrap
around the existing print manager.
And a lot of the APIs for getting
page sizes and things like that are
just wrappers around PR general calls.
So a few mistakes we made,
and hopefully I can let you avoid them,
is use the session APIs.
The non-session APIs do work.
The session APIs work much better.
And we did the non-session first
and then rewrote our whole printing
code using the session ones.
Also,
write your printing code for 10 first,
not the other way around.
Again, we made this mistake.
We wrote it for 9, got it working,
tried it on 10, didn't work at all.
This is because X is far pickier about
the way you use the print manager.
If you don't call things in quite
the right order in the right way,
X will not like it,
but it'll work fine in CarbonLib.
So we ended up having to rewrite
our printing code yet again for X,
and once we had it running on X,
it worked everywhere.
The biggest thing we ran into was
some driver incompatibilities.
Not all drivers are fully
compatible with CarbonLib.
You'll see this come up
in several different ways.
Some features will just be ignored
that are part of the print driver.
For example, reverse order printing,
invert pages, rotation, end up printing,
those sorts of things.
They just may get totally
ignored and your user may
choose to do two-up printing and
it comes up without that choice.
Other drivers will not print color.
They'll print just complete grayscale.
Again,
this is caused to incompatibilities
between CarbonLib and
the printer drivers.
Apple is currently working with the
driver vendors to solve these issues.
So in the long run,
this will not be an issue.
But in the short run,
be very aware that this will hit you
if you are doing lots of printing.
And the most important thing:
be sure to test, and a lot.
As new versions of CarbonLib come out,
Test them as quickly as you can.
Treat each new version of CarbonLib
like it's a whole new version of
OS 9 because in many ways it is.
The seeds do get posted
on the ADC website for
Select and Premier members.
When they show up,
get them immediately if you've
already got a shipping application
or if you're close to shipping.
Test your entire product because
you can test your product far
better than Apple ever could.
While they may find some things,
you'll find things that they
never thought to look at.
You don't want to discover that
once you've got an app that's
actually out there and shipping
that suddenly your user gets a
new version of CarbonLib through a
software update and your app breaks.
This has happened to
several third parties.
You don't want it to happen to you.
Get the new seeds and test them
immediately and report bugs.
You don't want to discover that
once you've got an app that's
actually out there and shipping
that suddenly your user gets a
new version of CarbonLib through a
software update and your app breaks.
This has happened to
several third parties.
You don't want it to happen to you.
Get the new seeds and test them
immediately and report bugs.
bugs.
The only way that's going to
get fixed is if you report bugs,
and do that through bugreport.apple.com.
So that's that's the biggest
thing I want to leave with you,
is don't let
incompatibilities affect you.
And that's it for my part,
thank you very much,
and good luck in your carbonizing.
Thank you Vince.
Great presentation.
You know, Vince and his team contributed
immensely to improvements in
CarbonLib and you guys can too by
filing bugs and feature requests.
So I really encourage you to do that.
I'm going to stress it again at the end.
Where are we going with CarbonLib?
We're going forward.
I hope it's apparent to you by now
that Apple is investing heavily in
Carbon and will continue to do so.
As I said earlier, as much as possible,
we will try and bring back new
Carbon APIs and make them run on 8 or 9.
That will make your
development efforts easier,
obviously.
But it's important to understand
our focus is Mac OS X.
But we will continue to support all the
Carbon APIs we've already introduced.
So what's next with Carbon and CarbonLib?
CarbonLib 1.4.
It's currently seated.
You can download it from the ADC website.
CarbonLib 1.4 includes some
new APIs to more closely match
what you'll find on Mac OS X.
Improved application package support,
as I mentioned earlier,
is coming in CarbonLib 1.4.
and support for more localizations:
Brazilian Portuguese, Korean,
Danish and some others.
Give us feedback as soon as possible.
We're early in the seed stage right now.
So the sooner you give us your feedback,
the more likely it is that we
can fix that bug or add that
feature that you really want.
How do you do that?
BugReport.apple.com.
Any ADC member, even online members,
can file bugs using our
bug reporter system.
They're funneled directly into
engineering and acted upon.
So please use that method.
For non-technical feedback,
you can send it to Carbon@apple.com.
I will see it, others will see it,
and it's also a useful
feedback mechanism.
I encourage you to sign up for
the Carbon Development Discussion
List at lists.apple.com.
This is a great place to get your
questions answered as well as share
your knowledge with other developers.
It's monitored by thousands of
developers and a whole bunch
of Apple engineers as well.
If you need one-on-one support,
that's available through our
Developer Technical Support group.
You email DTS@apple.com.
This is fee-based support.
Those of you who are selected
Premier members receive a
certain amount of tech support
incidents with your membership,
but anybody can purchase those.
Which brings us to the roadmap.
Well, most of these sessions
have gone by already,
but I encourage you to watch on ADC TV or
on the DVDs when they come out the
session on the Carbon Event Manager.
Remember, improve performance,
stop polling, make your code easier.
Carbon Windows and Menus,
more of the same.
And the application packaging and
document binding where you'll learn
about packages and also how to
How to use launch services to
bind your document types to
your applications on Mac OS X.
If you have feedback that you'd like
to give to the high level toolbox team,
The feedback forum is today at 3:30,
so right after this session in room C.
This is me again.
I am the Carbon Technology Manager,
so I'm the guy you should send
your issues and concerns to.